README.md, before:

This is the source repository for the [forester](https://sr.ht/~jonsterling/forester/) tool, which is implemented in the OCaml programming language. Please see [this page](https://www.jonmsterling.com/jms-005P.xml) for more information.

### System Requirements

You need to have [OCaml 5](https://ocaml.org) and [opam](https://opam.ocaml.org) installed.

### Installation

You can install forester by running `opam install forester`.

#### Using nix (Optional)

Forester can also be used with `nix`. To run `forester`, use `nix run sourcehut:~jonsterling/ocaml-forester`. If you are working with a Nix flake-based project and want to include Forester as a build input, you can add it to your `flake.nix`:

```nix
{
  inputs = {
    forester.url = "sourcehut:~jonsterling/ocaml-forester";
    forester.inputs.nixpkgs.follows = "nixpkgs";
  };

  outputs = inputs@{ self, forester, nixpkgs }:
    let
      system = "x86_64-linux"; # make sure to change this to your use case!
      pkgs = import nixpkgs { inherit system inputs; };
    in
    {
      devShells.${system}.default = pkgs.mkShell {
        buildInputs = [ forester.packages.${system}.default ];
      };
    };
}
```

### Example Use

Please see my [Forest](https://github.com/jonsterling/forest) for an example of using forester, or clone your own [template forest](https://git.sr.ht/~jonsterling/forest-template).

Commit message:

[breaking] switch to dream-html; add render caching; use xmlns
This changeset contains the following:

+ I have switched from xmlm to dream-html, which seems to be a bit more
  user-friendly for our contributors. The model also makes it relatively
  simple to cache rendered trees, which I have now done; this is a 2-3X
  speedup in rendering.

+ I have also changed the Forester XML format to be bound to a specific
  xml namespace (http://www.jonmsterling.com/jms-005P.xml). This is a
  major breaking change, and requires theme upgrade.

+ I have revamed the support for emitting custom XML, with new
  \<ns:name>{...} and \xmlns:ns{...} syntax.

README.md, after:

This is the source repository for the [forester](https://sr.ht/~jonsterling/forester/) tool, which is implemented in the OCaml programming language. Please see [this page](https://www.jonmsterling.com/jms-005P.xml) for more information.

### System Requirements

You need to have [OCaml 5](https://ocaml.org) and [opam](https://opam.ocaml.org) installed.

### Installation

You can install forester by running `opam install forester`. **For the current prerelease, you must first pin an unreleased version of dream-html; we will wait until the latter is released until we release a new version of Forester.**

```
opam pin add dream-html git+https://github.com/yawaramin/dream-html
```

#### Using nix (Optional)

Forester can also be used with `nix`. To run `forester`, use `nix run sourcehut:~jonsterling/ocaml-forester`. If you are working with a Nix flake-based project and want to include Forester as a build input, you can add it to your `flake.nix`:

```nix
{
  inputs = {
    forester.url = "sourcehut:~jonsterling/ocaml-forester";
    forester.inputs.nixpkgs.follows = "nixpkgs";
  };

  outputs = inputs@{ self, forester, nixpkgs }:
    let
      system = "x86_64-linux"; # make sure to change this to your use case!
      pkgs = import nixpkgs { inherit system inputs; };
    in
    {
      devShells.${system}.default = pkgs.mkShell {
        buildInputs = [ forester.packages.${system}.default ];
      };
    };
}
```

### Example Use

Please see my [Forest](https://github.com/jonsterling/forest) for an example of using forester, or clone your own [template forest](https://git.sr.ht/~jonsterling/forest-template).
